<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>"</span><span style=font-weight: 400;>Culture</span><span style=font-weight: 400;> is </span><strong>a fuzzy set of basic assumptions and values orientations to life beliefs policies procedures and behavioural conventions that are shared by a group of people</strong><span style=font-weight: 400;> and that influence (but do not determine) each member's behaviour and his/her interpretations of the 'meaning' of other people's behaviour.”</span></p>

<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>Young (2009) states: "Culture is significant to how learners learn. </span><strong>It is the way learners see the world and themselves in it.</strong><span style=font-weight: 400;>”</span></p>

<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>"Learning can also be characterized in different ways. In this book we adopt the broad definition of </span><span style=font-weight: 400;>learning</span><span style=font-weight: 400;> as </span><strong>a change in knowledge skills or attitudes as a result ‘of experience study or being taught.’</strong><span style=font-weight: 400;> As such we recognize that </span><strong>learning is a cultural process</strong><span style=font-weight: 400;>: a variety of ideas life experiences traditions and beliefs of a learner integrated within activities at home school church sports; and communities (Nasir Rosebery Warren &amp; Lee 2006).”</span></p>

<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>"</span><i><span style=font-weight: 400;>While many think of technology as tools and artifacts</span></i><span style=font-weight: 400;> we define </span><span style=font-weight: 400;>technology</span><span style=font-weight: 400;> to </span><strong>include both process and product technology</strong><span style=font-weight: 400;> (Reiser 2001a; 2001b).</span></p>

<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>Product technologies</span><span style=font-weight: 400;> include the tools and artifacts or media which most people readily recognize as technologies. These tools are often used for the design delivery and mediation of learning and communications. Some examples of product technologies are learning management systems for virtual learning delivery whiteboards for in-class instruction and ebooks and tablets for homework assignments.</span></p>

<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>Process technologies</span><span style=font-weight: 400;> on the other hand are the models and methods that guide the design and development Of curriculum and instruction. These include curriculum and instructional design process teaching methods and instructional strategies.”</span></p>

<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>AECT's revised definition of </span><span style=font-weight: 400;>educational technology</span><span style=font-weight: 400;> is </span><strong>the study and ethical</strong></p>  <p><strong>practice of facilitating learning and improving performance by creating using and</strong></p>  <p><strong>managing appropriate technological processes and resources.</strong><span style=font-weight: 400;> </span></p>