<p><strong>Mastery</strong><span style=font-weight: 400;> refers to the attainment of a high degree of competence within a particular area. That area can be narrowly or broadly defined ranging from discrete skills (for example using a Bunsen burner) or content knowledge (for example knowing the names of all U.S. presidents) to extensive knowledge and skills within a complex disciplinary domain (for example French theater thermodynamics or game theory).</span></p>

<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>For students to achieve mastery within a domain whether narrowly or broadly conceived they need to develop a set of key component skills practice them to the point where they can be combined fluently and used with a fair degree of automaticity and know when and where to apply them appropriately.</span></p>

<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>Elements of Mastery</span></p>

<ol>  <li><span style=font-weight: 400;> KNOW WHEN TO APPLY Skills</span></li>  <li><span style=font-weight: 400;> PRACTICE Integrating Skills</span></li>  <li><span style=font-weight: 400;> ACQUIRE Component Skills</span></li>  </ol>

<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>Stages in the Development of Mastery</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>UNCONSCIOUS Competence</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>CONSCIOUS Competence</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>CONSCIOUS Incompetence</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>UNCONSCIOUS Incompetence</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>  </span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>When expert instructors are blind to the learning needs of novice students it is known as </span><strong>expert blind spot</strong><span style=font-weight: 400;> (Nickerson 1999; Hinds 1999; Nathan &amp; Koedinger 2000; Nathan &amp; Petrosino 2003).</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;> </span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>Another method to emerge in the research is to support some aspects of a complex task while students perform the entire task (Sweller &amp; Cooper 1985). This result called the</span><strong> worked-example effect</strong><span style=font-weight: 400;> is one example of a process called </span><strong>scaffolding</strong><span style=font-weight: 400;> whereby instructors temporarily relieve some of the cognitive load so that students can focus on particular dimensions of learning.</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;> </span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>To illustrate this distinction between extraneous and germane load consider engi- neering students who are having difficulty solving practice</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>problems.</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;> </span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>The application of skills (or knowledge strategies approaches or habits) learned in one context to a novel context is referred to as </span><strong>transfer</strong><span style=font-weight: 400;>. Transfer is said to be near if the learning context and transfer context are similar and far when the contexts are dissimilar.</span></p>