<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>Technology can be used to achieve learning objectives although technology itself is not the primary ingredient in creating a course that meets educational objectives. </span></p>

<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>Teachers can use tools like the </span>**Pedagogy First**<span style=font-weight: 400;> tool created by Grand Canyon University's Center for Innovation in Research in Teaching to </span>**help search and select technologies relevant to their course objectives**<span style=font-weight: 400;>. Teachers can also ask questions with the assistance of </span>**briefs**<span style=font-weight: 400;> (like those provided by EDUCAUSE) </span>**that summarize emerging technologies**<span style=font-weight: 400;> such as: </span><span style=font-weight: 400;>What is it? How does it work? Who’s doing it? Why is it significant? What are the downsides? Where is it going? What are the implications for higher education?</span></p>

<p>**Technology aligned to specific learning goals can then be used to:**</p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>- create learning materials to accommodate visually/hearing impaired students and </span>**increase accessibility**</p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>- foster </span>**social learning**</p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>- </span>**help students**<span style=font-weight: 400;> find study groups participate in group and private messaging and receive institutional announcements</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>- </span>**monitor students’**<span style=font-weight: 400;> participation and provide facilitation and feedback as needed</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>- create digital resources to design and deliver instructional content</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>- create </span>**blended content**<span style=font-weight: 400;> that may help students develop mental representations reduce their cognitive load and test their understanding of content</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>- create online modules with simulations or new ways of visualizing content</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>- prompt students via text message to set learning goals aligned with course rubrics</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>- foster </span>**help-seeking**<span style=font-weight: 400;> with online resources and tutoring supports</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>- help students </span>**plan and manage their time**<span style=font-weight: 400;> with to-do lists task reminders embedded in calendars or timeline visualizations</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>- help students </span>**self-monitor**<span style=font-weight: 400;> their learning with prompts (or nudges) that encourage them to organize their thinking while learning (Sullivan 2016)</span></p>