<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>From The ABC's of How We Learn Ch. X:</span></p>

<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>excitement</span><span style=font-weight: 400;> - a physiological state of heightened arousal. It comes with increased heart rate increased blood pressure moist palms focused attention higher emotion. Moderate levels of arousal improve performance and memory encoding.</span></p>

<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>The </span><span style=font-weight: 400;>Yerkes-Dodson Law</span><span style=font-weight: 400;> describes the relation between arousal and performance (Yerkes &amp; Dodson 1908). For simple tasks arousal pushes performance until it reaches a plateau where performance cannot increase any more. For difficult tasks too much arousal hurts performance. Being too excited can cause a loss of focus and even a crash and burn for complex tasks.</span></p>

<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>Scientists have yet to agree on how emotion and arousal interact to influence learning. There are very many emotions to investigate including sadness joy and anger. The scope of Chapter X was limited to describing general states of arousal irrespective of emotional valence.</span></p>

<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>self-efficacy</span><span style=font-weight: 400;> - people's belief that they have what it takes to accomplish a goal</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;> </span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>People regularly make motivation-relevant attributions that reveal the </span><span style=font-weight: 400;>Fundamental Attribution Error</span><span style=font-weight: 400;> (Ross 1977).</span></p>

<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>For example</span></p>  <ul>  <li style=font-weight: 400;><span style=font-weight: 400;>Americans tend to believe that other people's bad behavior is caused by bad personalities whereas their own bad behavior is caused by the environment.</span></li>  <li style=font-weight: 400;><span style=font-weight: 400;>When driving to work a car cuts you off and you think the driver is a jerk and a bully but when you cut someone off it is because your boss would fire you for being late again.</span></li>  <li style=font-weight: 400;><span style=font-weight: 400;>"I cannot do this task well because my teacher is being mean."</span></li>  </ul>

<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>schema</span><span style=font-weight: 400;> - a general representation for a common class of situations. People have a schema for eating out that includes sitting down ordering food eating and paying the bill (and maybe tipping).</span></p>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;> </span></p>  <p>**Sleep’s relevance to learning**<span style=font-weight: 400;> is twofold:</span></p>

<ol>  <li style=font-weight: 400;><span style=font-weight: 400;>alertness to feed attention which can store new memories during the day</span></li>  <li style=font-weight: 400;><span style=font-weight: 400;>memory consolidation at night to facilitate pattern-matching by integrating with prior knowledge during the day </span></li>  </ol>

<p><span style=font-weight: 400;></span>**Slow-wave sleep (SWS)**<span style=font-weight: 400;> is named after these slow (for the brain at least) on-off oscillations. Researchers know </span>**SWS is related to learning**<span style=font-weight: 400;> because </span>**the waves are stronger after a day of heavy learning**<span style=font-weight: 400;> (after studying for finals) and </span>**weaker**<span style=font-weight: 400;> if not much learning has occurred (</span>**a lazy summer day**<span style=font-weight: 400;>).</span></p>

<p><span style=font-weight: 400;>They also show up in predictable brain locations. If a person learns a motor routine during the day like a finger-tapping pattern then areas of the brain responsible for movement processing will show increased amplitude of sleep oscillations compared with a day of little motor learning (Huber Ghilardi Massimini &amp; Tononi 2004).</span></p>

<p>**Sleeping more can also lead to decreased forgetting and greater athletic performance.**</p>

<ul>  <li style=font-weight: 400;> <span style=font-weight: 400;>A classic study showed that after learning nonsense syllables taking a nap helps people to forget less than staying awake does. Even when tested as little as one hour after learning </span>**participants forgot more syllables if they stayed awake than if they napped during that hour**<span style=font-weight: 400;> (Jenkins &amp; Dallenbach 1924). Interestingly different types of memory seem to be boosted preferentially during different sleep stages: emotional implicit and procedural memory may be boosted during REM sleep while declarative memory and insight learning may benefit more from SWS.</span> </li>  </ul>  <p><span style=font-weight: 400;>Mah Mah Kezirian and Dement (2011) asked Stanford University </span>**basketball players to extend their nighttime sleep by two hours**<span style=font-weight: 400;> to a minimum of ten hours in bed (alone) per night for about six weeks. Mah and colleagues found improvement in sprint times free-throw percentage and three-point shot success even though the athletes reported already feeling at the peak of their athletic skill before the start of the study.</span></p>