<span style=font-weight: 400;>ECS </span>**aims to grow actively engaged citizens driving thoughtful change in the world around them**<span style=font-weight: 400;> by means of their ecoliteracy program. ECS is committed to building systems thinkers by means of having students </span>**explore the environment its ecology and diversity and applying interdisciplinary perspectives to engage and explore problems**<span style=font-weight: 400;>. ECS according to its Founding Principal and CEO Jon McCann aims to transform students into global citizens will need to be equipped with skills that allow them to be </span>**flexible thinkers creative problem solvers and effective leaders**<span style=font-weight: 400;>.</span>

<span style=font-weight: 400;>The prime directive of ECS' faculty and staff are to ensure all students succeed at a high level </span>**becoming problem solvers critical thinkers and thoughtful innovators who are prepared to thrive in our changing society**<span style=font-weight: 400;>. The organization and programs at the school are designed and continually refined in pursuit of fulfilling that aim. This is achieved by means of </span>**collaboration reflection and progressivism**<span style=font-weight: 400;>.</span>

<span style=font-weight: 400;>For example ECS features a Middle School Thinking Lab which employs Visible Thinking in order to build thinking dispositions. The goals of the Thinking Lab are for students to bridge art and science by :</span>

<ol>  <li><span style=font-weight: 400;> using verbal visual and critical thinking skills to identify understand and express problems that cross disciplines</span></li>  <li><span style=font-weight: 400;> making connections between science art technology and design and </span></li>  <li><span style=font-weight: 400;> incubating and activating within the lab an innovative learning community and inspiring active collaboration between ECS faculty and partner organizations.</span></li>  </ol>

<span style=font-weight: 400;>Through focus groups surveys and classroom visits ECS has continued to expand to serve grades K-12 across three campuses by 2020. ECS identified </span>**four themes during its most recent growth phase - Programming Looping Schedule and Spaces**<span style=font-weight: 400;> - and created a framework for planning logistics and guiding decisions at the building level.</span>

<span style=font-weight: 400;>ECS across three schools: http://files.constantcontact.com/748f1a22101/47014fd6-676b-4151-81eb-52d0eff2e9d1.pdf</span>

<span style=font-weight: 400;>ECS aims to </span>**feed students with healthy and fresh food**<span style=font-weight: 400;> (85% of which is made from scratch) while keeping costs low and reducing food waste. Families are encouraged to complete a Federal Free and Reduced lunch form and the Summer Food Service Program (SFSP) is used to feed children (via an English or Spanish number) breakfast lunch and/or snacks during the summer months. To these ends ECS has outlined a Wellness Policy.</span>

<span style=font-weight: 400;>Wellness Policy: https://static1.squarespace.com/static/5a1ed6c2f43b55b309dbceb3/t/5a833ba18165f53fdae0c8df/1518549926139/Wellnesspolicy17%252F18.pdf</span>

<span style=font-weight: 400;>ECS also has an </span>**accessibility/disability Civil Rights policy**<span style=font-weight: 400;> (https://static1.squarespace.com/static/5a1ed6c2f43b55b309dbceb3/t/5a2aec94ec212d9a4f2c320e/1512762516762/Civil-rights-statement.pdf) and </span>**counseling services to support students' social/emotional academic and career needs**<span style=font-weight: 400;>. </span>**Students are taught to build coping self-regulation and conflict resolution skills**<span style=font-weight: 400;> and are offered a variety of other counseling services.</span>

<span style=font-weight: 400;>ECS Counseling: https://ecscounseling.shutterfly.com/</span>

<span style=font-weight: 400;>Budget: https://static1.squarespace.com/static/5a1ed6c2f43b55b309dbceb3/t/5a4e61f99140b7211870a01b/1515086329293/2017-2018-Draft-Budget-Public-Review.xls-17-18-Budget+%281%29.pdf</span>